## Redox and electron transfers:
$$
\ce{2Mg(s) + O2(g) -> 2MgO (s)}
$$
- The magnesium here has been **clearly** oxidised having gained oxygen.
- But why exactly has oxygen been **reduced?**

### A look at the electrons:
- Magnesium starts as a neutral atom with 2 electrons in its outer shell.
- Oxygen has 6 electrons in its outer shell.
- The magnesium **lost** 2 electrons giving them to the oxygen which **gained** the 2 electrons forming an ionic bond. (magnesium oxide is an ionic compound)
- This means that:
	- **Reduction is the gain of electrons.** (Oxygen in our case)
	- **Oxidation is the loss of electrons.** (Magnesium in our case)

### A look at the half equations:
$$
\ce{Mg -> Mg^{2+} + 2e-} (oxidation)
$$
$$
\ce{O + 2e- -> O^2-} (reduction)
$$
1. Oxygen is molecular so lets re write that:
$$
\ce{O2 + 4e- -> 2O^2-} (reduction)
$$
2. To have balanced half equations we need to have equal number of electrons, the same way that when we write a chemical equation we need to have the same number of atoms.
$$
\ce{2Mg -> 2Mg^2+ + 4e-}
$$
$$
\ce{O2 + 4e- -> 2O^2-}
$$
3. Here are 2 balanced half equations.

## Ionic Equations:
- Lets take a look at the reaction between chlorine and potassium bromide:
$$
\ce{Cl2(g) + 2KBr(aq) -> 2KCl(aq) + Br2(g)}
$$
- When chlorine bubbles through the potassium bromide solution it displaces the bromine which then bubbles off.

### The half equations:
- As you can probably see the potassium doesn't gain or lose electrons, it is a spectator ion (doesn't take part in the reaction, this will be seen in the ionic equation).
$$
\ce{Cl2 + 2e- -> 2Cl-} (reduction)
$$
$$
\ce{2Br- -> Br2 + 2e-} (oxidation)
$$
- Adding these two up:
$$
\ce{Cl2 + \cancel{2e-} + 2Br- -> 2Cl- + Br2 + \cancel{2e-}}
$$
$$
\ce{Cl2 + 2Br- -> 2Cl- + Br2}
$$
- As you can see, potassium ions dont react, they are spectator ions, the only ions which react are bromide ions which react with chlorine to form chlorine ions and bromide molecular gas.
