## Where is sulfur found:
- as element in underground beds.
- galena ore (PbS).
- in fossil fuels (coal, natural gas, petroleum).
- on the rim of volcanoes.

## Extracting sulfur:
- Most sulfur is obtained from sulfur compounds found in fossil fuels:
For example hydrogen sulfide is removed from fossil fuels to decrease air pollution.

```ad-seealso
title: hydrogen sulfide removal
2H2S (g) + O2 (g) -> 2S (s) + 2H2O (l)
```

- From sulfur beds, heated water is pumped though sulfur beds to melt the sulfur and carry it to the surface (sulfur melts at 115 deg C).

## Properties of sulfur:
- It is brittle yellow solid.
- It has two different allotropes:
	- crystal rhombic allotrope at room temp.
	- monoclinic sulfur at temp above 96 deg C.
- Molecular -> low melting point.
- Non Metal -> doesnt conduct electricity.
- Non Metal -> non soluble in water
- Reacts with metals to form sulfides:
```ad-seealso
title: iron(2) sulfide
Fe (s) + S (s) -> FeS (s)
```
- Burns in oxygen to form sulfur dioxide:
```ad-seealso
title: sulfur dioxide
S (s) + O2 (g) -> SO2 (g)
```

## Uses of sulfur:
- Used to make sulfuric acid.
- Added to rubber to make it stronger (vulcanising).
- Used in making drugs, pesticides, dyes, shampoos.
- It is added to cement, to make sulfur concrete, this concrete is resistant to acid.

## Sulfur Dioxide:
- Forms when sulfur burns in air (SO2).
- Acidic oxide which dissolves into water to form sulfuric acid.
```ad-seealso
title: sulfur dioxide to sufluric acid
H2O (l) + SO2 (g) -> H2SO3 (aq)
```
- Chocking gas, heavier than air.
- Acts as bleach since it reduces the colors.
- It can kill bacteria.
- can be tested by potassium manganate:
	- if present, it turns from purple to colourless.

### Pollutant:
- Comes usually from burning the sulfur compounds in the fossil fuels.
- Acid rain.
- Lung problems.

### Uses:
- Used to manufacture sulfuric acid.
- Used to bleach wool, silk, etc.
- Used as food preservative to kill bacteria.

