## Where is water needed?
- At home
- On farms
- In industry
- In power stations

## Where does it come from?
- Rivers
- Aquifers

### Improved sources:
- Water piped to homes
- Water delivered by tankers
- Wells *in safe places*
- Rainwater
- Bottled Water

## What is in river water?
*Since water is a good solvent there are allot of things dissolved in it*
- Oxygen And Nitrogen - Good
- Minerals from rock and soil (Ca, Mg, Zn, Na, F2, K, Fe, Cu) - Good
- Metal Compounds from mines, factories, sewages - Bad
- Metals (Pb, As, Hg) - Bad
- Fertilisers (nitrates and phosphates) - Bad
- Microbes (diarrhoea, cholera, typhoid) - Bad
- Plastic waste - Bad

## Water Treatment:
8 basic steps
1. Water pumped through screen to block big particles.
2. Coagulant added to water - makes particles stick and deposit.
3. Air is blown through the particles in a flotation tank to make the coagulated particles float  to the top.
4. Water is passed through be of sand or fine filter - filters off any finer particles.
5. Can go through more filters like charcoal to remove bad smells.
6. Chlorine is added - remove and kill microbes.
7. Fluorine is added - help fight tooth decay.
8. Water is pumped to storage reservoir.

- yet water still isnt entirely pure, dissolved chemicals like nitrates from fertilisers are still present and can make babies ill. They can be removed but its very expensive and inpractical. (distilled water - only used in lab)

## Testing for Water:

### Presence:
- White anhydrous copper sulfate -> turns blue
- Blue cobalt paper -> turns pink

### Purity:
- Check bp (100 deg C) and fp (0 deg C)



